We noticed a few things happening in the previous example. The first thing that happened that you saw was that
the paragraph tag did not display until all the scripts were finished running.
And this brings us to a very interesting, interesting concept and that is first things first, when
a script is referenced in an HTML page, the browser does two things for you.
One, it retrieves and loads the scripts content, and this is non-blocking.
We're going to get into a bit more detail on this later.
Non-blocking just means that everything can still happen in the background.
Nothing's blocked.
That's the first thing it does - it retrieves that script content.
The second thing is it (the browser) does, is it runs that script content. And this is blocking.
So what's the conclusion?
What did we see?
Well, when we opened the HTML in the browser, we noticed the delay of the page load.
The page went blank before it rendered correctly.
And this is due to the fact that the running of the scripts is blocking and it blocks the DOM from rendering.
What this means is that when a script is running, the browser is not able to fetch & display the DOM element
in our case, we saw that it was our document.getElementByID.
Order matters.
That's why we saw null. This is because scripts are run before the DOM has rendered.
Scripts themselves are also blocking each other.
They run in the order specified in the HTML.
It kind of makes sense, right?